for years people have sort of looked
down their noses at Scriabin especially
at the poem of ecstasy because he was
that such an eccentric character I mean
he he believed himself to be the center
of a cult he was setting up his grand
plan was to have a ceremony at the foot
of the Himalayas that would bring about
the end of the year of the earth he was
one of several composers to have claimed
the gift of synesthesia in which a
trigger in one sense sets off a response
in another so when he heard sound he saw
colors but for all of the critiques of
trashiness thrown at the the poem of
ecstasy it still fascinates us the use
of the interval of the tritone which
several hundred years ago had been
referred to as diabolos in musica the
devil and music it was the most
dissonant interval you could you could
write Scriabin uses tritones everywhere
and and manages to create it use it for
a sort of demonic sensuality it is a
work that is so exotic and so seductive
and so unusual that you can't help but
be brought a drawn in by it it's fun you
could consider it trashy fun if you
wanted to but it's a soui generous it
there is nothing like it
you